you
in this short video we're going to show
you how we used animation to make custom
playing cards to magical tricks in Ted's
lesson on synesthesia synesthesia is a
neurological condition in which two or
more senses are paired together to
create a completely new experience for
example many synesthetes see letters and
numbers in colors even when they are
printed in black or they can taste
certain words for instance jail tastes
like bacon because synesthesia generally
involves the brain pairing up two or
more senses we paired up playing cards
with unique colorful and visceral
symbols we then used an animation
technique called stop motion to
manipulate the cards in ways that would
be otherwise physically impossible and
as the cards were flipping shuffling and
sliding we used a mixture of animation
and reality to ensure that the symbols
on the cards did their part to explain
the nuances of synesthesia this type of
animation is very difficult to pull off
without some planning first
a storyboard is a series of still images
that basically serve as a roadmap for an
animation from beginning to end an
animatic is a storyboard in motion by
making the animatic we were able to
review the digital motion for each shot
which allowed us to progressively work
out timing camera positioning and most
importantly any challenges we
anticipated in the final animation
process how many hands do you need to
shuffle a deck of cards here we wanted
to emphasize each nucleotide in the DNA
sequence and stop-motion allows for more
control by shuffling between individual
frames we can ensure that each card had
a controlled amount of screen time in
this case three frames and that the
cards placement was consistent but
sometimes four hands just isn't enough
we use this trick a lot in this lesson
all thanks to one secret ingredient
play-doh
by molding the play-doh in two different
sides pyramids the cards can be held in
different positions always keeping the
pyramid big enough to support the card
but small enough to not be seen and to
not cast its own revealing shadow
making an animated movie is like making
a delicious layer cake it's up to the
animators to create the many planes or
layers the use of green screen enables
us to shoot individual elements moving
and to later assemble those layers one
on top of the other using software we
key out the green color both on the
background and playdough layer the cards
add the hands insert a background and if
you planned your ingredients carefully
everything should come together just
right so grab some fishing wire glue
masking tape chopsticks and whatever
else you can find we'd love to see you
make some of your own animated illusions
Oh
you